---
title: Monaco special configuration types
source: https://docs.dynatrace.com/managed/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/configuration/special-configuration-types
scraped: 2026-05-12T12:35:11.736594
---

# Monaco special configuration types

# Monaco special configuration types

* Explanation
* 6-min read
* Updated on Oct 21, 2025

The following configuration types have non-standard behavior and constraints to deal with special Dynatrace APIs.

## Single configuration endpoint

These configurations are global to a Dynatrace environment **and only exist once**. Unlike other configurations, there is usually some default configuration that the API—or the Dynatrace Monaco CLI—allows you to update.

Be aware that only one such configuration should be present in your configuration. Having multiple configurations (for example, in several projects deployed in one run) will result in the last applied configuration being active on the Dynatrace environment.

## Non-unique name

The Dynatrace Monaco CLI assumes that the **name of a configuration is unique**, and it uses it as the identifier when deciding to create or update a configuration. This is also the case for most configurations when created in the Dynatrace UI or via API calls.

However, some configurations can have overlapping names, which causes issues for the Dynatrace Monaco CLI. For example, there can be several dashboards named **My Dashboard**. If more than one configuration of a name is present, the Dynatrace Monaco CLI can't ensure that the correct one is updated when searching by name. Similar problems are present when downloading.

To work around this, special handling is present for these configuration APIs to ensure the following:

* They receive a known identifier when originating from the Dynatrace Monaco CLI.
* They are stored with their Dynatrace identifier rather than their name when downloading.

### Calculated metrics

Calculated metrics generally behave as non-unique name types, but use a definable `metricKey` as identifiers, so the automated handling described above is not possible.

For most calculated metrics types, you just need to manually ensure that they have unique names.

The `calculated-metrics-log` type that allows configuration of the metrics for the deprecated Logs v1 needs further special handling as in the [Calculated log metrics JSON](/managed/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/configuration/special-configuration-types#log-metrics-json "Dynatrace Configuration as Code via Monaco - special configuration types.") section below.

## Settings 2.0 objects

The handling of Settings 2.0 objects differs from regular configurations.
Unlike the latter, which are typically identified by name, Settings 2.0 objects might not have a unique name or any name at all.
Instead, they are assigned an external identifier called `externalId` that enables them to be uniquely identified.

The `externalId` consists of the prefix `monaco:` followed by an identifier generated by the Dynatrace Monaco CLI on deployment.

Moreover, to ensure the reliable updating of existing Settings 2.0 objects, the Dynatrace Monaco CLI maintains a record of the original Dynatrace object IDs when downloading and includes them in the YAML configuration field `originObjectId`.

Settings objects also have special requirements for their JSON templates. For details, see [Settings JSON](/managed/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/configuration/special-configuration-types#settings-json "Dynatrace Configuration as Code via Monaco - special configuration types.") below.

## Special requirements for JSON templates

Some types of configuration have special requirements for their JSON payloads and may need manual attention.

### Dashboard JSON

When you create a dashboard in Dynatrace, it's private by default.
All the dashboards defined via Configuration as Code need to be shared publicly with other users; otherwise, only the owner of the access token used to deploy can view them.
You can change this in the dashboard settings or by just changing your checked-in `json` file.
We recommend the following values for the `dashboardMetadata`:

```
"dashboardMetadata": {



"name": "{{ .name }}",



"shared": true,



"sharingDetails": {



"linkShared": true,



"published": true



},



"dashboardFilter": {



"timeframe": "",



"managementZone": {



"id": "{{ .managementZoneId }}",



"name": "{{ .managementZoneName }}"



}



}



}
```

This configuration does the following:

* References the name of the dashboard as a [variable](#configuration-yaml-structure)
* Shares the dashboard with other users
* Sets a management zone filter on the entire dashboard, again as a variable, most likely [referenced from another config](/managed/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/configuration/yaml-configuration#reference "Learn how to set up your Monaco YAML configuration.")

  Filtering the whole dashboard by management zone ensures that only data that is meant to be displayed is picked up by dashboard tiles, and it eliminates the possible need to define filters for individual tiles.

* Dynatrace version 1.208+ A dashboard configuration must have a property owner. The property owner in `dashboardMetadata` is mandatory and must contain a non-null value.
* Dynatrace version 1.208+ The property `sharingDetails` in `dashboardMetadata` is no longer present.

### Calculated log metrics JSON

There is a known drawback to Dynatrace Monaco CLI's workaround to the slightly off-standard **Calculated log metrics** API, which requires you to follow specific naming conventions for your configuration: when you create custom log metrics, your configuration's `name` must be the `metricKey` of the log metric.

Additionally, a configuration upload might fail when a metric configuration is newly created, and an additional configuration depends on the new log metric. To work around this, set both `metricKey` and `displayName` to the same value.

You thus need to reference at least the `metricKey` of the log metric as `{{ .name }}` in the JSON file as shown here:

```
configs:



- id: some-log-metric-config



config:



name:  "cal.log:this-is-some-metric"



[...]
```

And in the corresponding JSON:

```
{



"metricKey": "{{ .name }}",



"active": true,



"displayName": "{{ .name }}",



[...]



}
```

### Conditional naming JSON

Because there is no `name` parameter in the Dynatrace **Conditional naming** API, you should map `{{ .name }}` to `displayName`. For example:

```
{



"type": "PROCESS_GROUP",



"nameFormat": "Test naming PG for {Host:DetectedName}",



"displayName": "{{ .name }}",



[...]



}
```

This also applies to the `HOST` type:

```
{



"type": "HOST",



"nameFormat": "Test - {Host:DetectedName}",



"displayName": "{{ .name }}",



[...]



}
```

And it applies to the `SERVICE` type:

```
{



"type": "SERVICE",



"nameFormat": "{ProcessGroup:KubernetesNamespace} - {Service:DetectedName}",



"displayName": "{{ .name }}",



...



}
```

### Settings JSON

Because the payload of the [Settings API](/managed/dynatrace-api/environment-api/settings "Find out what the Dynatrace Settings API offers.") contains several properties that do not directly relate to the schema and might need to be set by the Dynatrace Monaco CLI, the JSON templates for settings should only include the actual configuration `value`.

For example, while the API response for auto-tagging (`builtin:tags.auto-tagging`) is:

```
{



"items": [



{



"objectId": "vu9U3hXafawfawfawABnRlbmFudAAkZmY0ZTQxZDUtYmM2Yi0zMmFlLThhYmMtNDg3NTFiNWRkMWVhvu9U3hXa3q0",



"value": {



"name": "Application Tag",



"rules": [



{



"enabled": true,



"valueNormalization": "Leave text as-is",



"type": "ME",



"attributeRule": {



"entityType": "APPLICATION",



"conditions": [



{



"key": "WEB_APPLICATION_NAME",



"operator": "CONTAINS",



"stringValue": "My App Name",



"caseSensitive": true



}



]



}



}



]



}



}



],



"totalCount": 1,



"pageSize": 100



}
```

Your Configuration as Code template should be limited to the content of `value`:

```
{



"name": "Application Tag",



"rules": [



{



"enabled": true,



"valueNormalization": "Leave text as-is",



"type": "ME",



"attributeRule": {



"entityType": "APPLICATION",



"conditions": [



{



"key": "WEB_APPLICATION_NAME",



"operator": "CONTAINS",



"stringValue": "My App Name",



"caseSensitive": true



}



]



}



}



]



}
```