---
title: Event triggers for workflows
source: https://www.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/workflows/trigger/event-trigger
scraped: 2026-03-01T21:21:08.644610
---

# Event triggers for workflows

# Event triggers for workflows

* Latest Dynatrace
* Reference
* 5-min read
* Updated on Feb 02, 2026

Event triggers are a group of triggers that you can configure to match events in the ingest pipeline to trigger a workflow.

There are three event trigger types

* **Event trigger**
* **Davis problem trigger**
* **Davis event trigger**

## Event trigger

The **Event trigger** allows you to specify a custom event filter with the help of a [DQL matcher](/docs/observe/business-observability/bo-event-processing/bo-events-processing-matcher "This is the DQL matcher in events in the classic pipeline .") expression to define which events will trigger a workflow execution.

The following configuration parameters are available to define the triggering behavior of the **Event trigger**.

* **Event type**

  + **events** are created by Dynatrace and your monitoring and platform configuration.
  + **bizevents** are business events. An external application sends the **bizevents**. For more information, see the [`/bizevents/ingest` endpoint](/docs/observe/business-observability/bo-api-ingest "Set up authentication for and ingest business events via API.").
  + **dt.system.events** are generated by Dynatrace system services. Not all system events are eligible to trigger workflows. To find the events that can be used, look for those with the `dt.openpipeline.pipelines` property set using filter `isNotNull(dt.openpipeline.pipelines)` in a notebook.
  + **security.events** are generated by Dynatrace Application Security, ingested via the [`v1/security.events` endpoint](/docs/platform/openpipeline/reference/openpipeline-ingest-api/security-events/security-events-builtin "Ingest security events from built-in endpoints via OpenPipeline Ingest API.") or ingested via [`custom/security.events/<custom-endpoint-name>` endpoints](/docs/platform/openpipeline/reference/openpipeline-ingest-api/security-events/security-events-custom-endpoint "Configure a custom security event endpoint via OpenPipeline Ingest API."). For more information, see [security events](/docs/semantic-dictionary/model/security-events "Get to know the Semantic Dictionary models related to security events.") in the Semantic Dictionary.
* In **Filter query**, you can define how to narrow down the events. The filter definition is provided in [DQL matcher](/docs/platform/openpipeline/reference/dql-matcher-in-openpipeline "Examine specific DQL functions and logical operators for log processing.") syntax.

Optional Select **Query past events** to estimate the volume of matching events in your environment.

Single events

All events are evaluated in the ingest pipeline against the DQL matcher expression, event by event. A DQL matcher expression, therefore, doesn't allow the use of any aggregation or querying over a set of events.

## Davis problem trigger

Davis problems are created by [Dynatrace Intelligence](/docs/dynatrace-intelligence/root-cause-analysis "How Dynatrace analyzes problems to determine their root cause.") based on monitoring data. The **Davis problem trigger** allows selectively triggering a workflow in response. The trigger will happen once, when a Davis problem becomes active (on open and re-open), and optionally once when a problem is closed.

The following configuration parameters are available to define the triggering behavior of the **Davis problem trigger**.

* **Problem state**

  + **active** means that the Davis problem is not closed yet.
  + **active or closed** means that the Davis problem can be both active or closed.
* **Event category** definitions are in [Event categories](/docs/dynatrace-intelligence/root-cause-analysis/event-analysis-and-correlation/event-categories "Learn about different categories of events and supported event types, along with their severity levels, and the logic behind raising them.").
* Select **Affected entities** based on their tags. For more information on tags, see [Define and apply tags](/docs/manage/tags-and-metadata/setup/how-to-define-tags "Find out how to define and apply tags manually and automatically.").

  + **Include all entities**
  + **Include entities with all defined tags below**
  + **Include entities with any defined tag below**
* Define **Additional custom filter query** by adding any [DQL matcher](/docs/platform/openpipeline/reference/dql-matcher-in-openpipeline "Examine specific DQL functions and logical operators for log processing.") expression to the above definition.

## Davis event trigger

Davis events are created by [Dynatrace Intelligence](/docs/dynatrace-intelligence/root-cause-analysis "How Dynatrace analyzes problems to determine their root cause.") based on monitoring data. The **Davis event trigger** allows selectively triggering a workflow in response.

The following configuration parameters are available to define the triggering behavior on Davis Problem events

* **Problem state**

  + **active** means that the Davis event is not closed yet.
  + **active or closed** means that the Davis event can be active or closed.
* **Davis event name**

  + **equals** means there's a match if the Davis event name exactly matches the event name string.
  + **contains** means there's a match if the Davis event name contains the event name string.
* Select the **Affected entities** based on their tags. For more information on tags, see [Define and apply tags](/docs/manage/tags-and-metadata/setup/how-to-define-tags "Find out how to define and apply tags manually and automatically.").

  + **Include all entities**
  + **Include entities with all defined tags below**
  + **Include entities with any defined tag below**
* Define **Additional custom filter query** by adding any [DQL matcher](/docs/platform/openpipeline/reference/dql-matcher-in-openpipeline "Examine specific DQL functions and logical operators for log processing.") expression to the above definition.

## Permissions

The actor on a workflow with event trigger requires access to the event, thus the following permissions must be granted accordingly.

* [storage:events:read](/docs/manage/identity-access-management/permission-management/manage-user-permissions-policies/advanced/iam-policystatements#storage-events-read "Complete reference of IAM policies and corresponding conditions across all Dynatrace services.") - in case of generic event trigger of type events, as well as Davis problem or event trigger
* [storage:security.events:read](/docs/manage/identity-access-management/permission-management/manage-user-permissions-policies/advanced/iam-policystatements#storage-security-events-read "Complete reference of IAM policies and corresponding conditions across all Dynatrace services.") - in case of event trigger of type security.events
* [storage:bizevents:read](/docs/manage/identity-access-management/permission-management/manage-user-permissions-policies/advanced/iam-policystatements#storage-bizevents-read "Complete reference of IAM policies and corresponding conditions across all Dynatrace services.") - in case of generic event trigger of type bizevents
* [storage:system:read](/docs/manage/identity-access-management/permission-management/manage-user-permissions-policies/advanced/iam-policystatements#storage-system-read "Complete reference of IAM policies and corresponding conditions across all Dynatrace services.") - in case of generic event trigger of type dt.system.events
* [storage:buckets:read](/docs/manage/identity-access-management/permission-management/manage-user-permissions-policies/advanced/iam-policystatements#storage-buckets-read "Complete reference of IAM policies and corresponding conditions across all Dynatrace services.") - its recommended to restrict the permission to the bucket related to the event only

These permissions must be granted for any kind of user selected as an actor. In the case of an interactive user (nonsystem user), make sure that these permissions are also chosen in the authorization settings by this user. For more details, see (permission documentation for Workflows](workflows-security).

## Limits

Because event triggers can occur frequently, each workflow is limited to a maximum of 1,000 event triggers per hour, per workflow.

* If an event trigger exceeds this limit, no further event triggers for this workflow will run for up to an hour.
* If an event trigger reaches the limit three times within seven days, the event trigger is disabled.

In either case, the limit is flagged in the Workflows overview and can be filtered for.

To remedy this situation, we recommend adjusting the event trigger configuration and reenabling the trigger.

## Hints on working with workflows and event triggers



* To access the event payload to parameterize tasks in your workflow, use the `event()` [expression](/docs/analyze-explore-automate/workflows/reference#event "Get to know the workflows expression").
* For an event trigger, Workflows will prompt the event context of the last successful execution for manually triggered workflow runs. The Workflows prompt allows you to adjust the event context for manual runs during workflow development iterations.
* With **Query past events** in the event trigger definition, you can quickly see how many matching events were observed in the past in your environment.
* Use [Notebooks](/docs/analyze-explore-automate/dashboards-and-notebooks/notebooks "Analyze, visualize, and share insights from your observability data—all in one collaborative, customizable workspace.") to explore the events in your environment and determine which events you want to leverage.
* Be aware that event filter expressions only support [DQL matcher](/docs/platform/openpipeline/reference/dql-matcher-in-openpipeline "Examine specific DQL functions and logical operators for log processing.") syntax, which is a subset of DQL.