---
title: Management zones and ingested log data (Logs Classic)
source: https://www.dynatrace.com/docs/analyze-explore-automate/log-monitoring/analyze-log-data/management-zones-and-log-monitoring
scraped: 2026-02-20T21:16:10.658660
---

# Management zones and ingested log data (Logs Classic)

# Management zones and ingested log data (Logs Classic)

* Explanation
* 2-min read
* Updated on Jan 18, 2023

Log Monitoring Classic

Management zones are an information-partitioning mechanism that allow you to focus on specific parts of your topology. You can customize a management zone to include a specific set of monitored entities [via management-zone rules](/docs/manage/identity-access-management/permission-management/management-zones/management-zone-rules#rule-types "Define rules to limit the entities accessible within a management zone."). Use one of these two methods to analyze logs generated by a management-zone entity.

* Ingest logs via OneAgent, which automatically discovers log files in the topological context.
* Use [log ingestion](/docs/analyze-explore-automate/log-monitoring/acquire-log-data/logs-classic-ingestion-api "Learn how Dynatrace ingests log data and what are potential limits such ingestion.") via API, which requires certain attributes to detect the topological context.

If you use the Log ingestion API via the [Log Monitoring API v2](/docs/dynatrace-api/environment-api/log-monitoring-v2/post-ingest-logs "Push custom logs to Dynatrace via the Log Monitoring API v2."), you can send an object representing a single event or an array of objects representing multiple events. The object must contain at least one of the following attribute keys, which define the entity types for which log data is ingested.

* `dt.entity.process_group_instance`—Process group instances
* `dt.entity.custom_device`—Custom devices
* `dt.entity.host`—Hosts

Log Monitoring Classic checks, in the order listed above, if the log event attribute value (and, therefore, the corresponding entity) belongs to a given management zone. At the first match, Log Monitoring Classic stops checking and assigns the log data to the management zone that the matched entity belongs to.

If your management zone already provides access to the host through which logs are ingested, you automatically provide access to those logs.

In the [log viewer](/docs/analyze-explore-automate/log-monitoring/analyze-log-data/log-viewer "Learn how to use Dynatrace log viewer to analyze log data."), select the **Filter** button  in the menu bar to select a management zone. The log viewer displays log data for the entities matching the log-event attribute keys listed above.

Users must have the **View logs** permission on the environment level or management-zone level to be able to view the ingested and automatically assigned log data.

The log viewer displays log data for up to 10,000 monitored entities per management zone. If your management zone contains more than 10,000 monitored entities, and you would like to see log data for all of your monitored entities, you can break your management zone into smaller zones of fewer than 10,000 monitored entities each.

If you need to filter logs by other attributes, you can add a [rule for including log-based dimensional data](/docs/manage/identity-access-management/permission-management/management-zones/management-zone-rules#ui "Define rules to limit the entities accessible within a management zone.") in a management zone. Logs satisfying the conditions of such a rule are then displayed in the log viewer after selecting a management zone using the **Filter** button .

## Related topics

* [Log Monitoring API v2 - POST ingest logs](/docs/dynatrace-api/environment-api/log-monitoring-v2/post-ingest-logs "Push custom logs to Dynatrace via the Log Monitoring API v2.")
* [Log ingestion API (Logs Classic)](/docs/analyze-explore-automate/log-monitoring/acquire-log-data/logs-classic-ingestion-api "Learn how Dynatrace ingests log data and what are potential limits such ingestion.")
* [Log viewer (Logs Classic)](/docs/analyze-explore-automate/log-monitoring/analyze-log-data/log-viewer "Learn how to use Dynatrace log viewer to analyze log data.")
* [Management-zone rules](/docs/manage/identity-access-management/permission-management/management-zones/management-zone-rules "Define rules to limit the entities accessible within a management zone.")