---
title: Monaco configuration YAML file - list of special configuration types
source: https://www.dynatrace.com/docs/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/configuration/special-configuration-types-saas
scraped: 2026-03-01T21:26:55.710811
---

# Monaco configuration YAML file - list of special configuration types

# Monaco configuration YAML file - list of special configuration types

* Latest Dynatrace
* Reference
* 6-min read
* Published Sep 14, 2025

This section describes how only one, single configuration end point should be present. It also describes the configuration types with non-standard behavior and specific constraints when working with the related APIs.
For more information, see [supported Configuration API types](/docs/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/monaco-api-support-and-access-handling#supported-api-types "This is a list of the Monaco API support and access permission handling.").

## Single configuration endpoint

These configurations are global to a Dynatrace environment and a one-off.
Unlike other configurations, there is usually some default configuration that you can update.

Be aware that only one such configuration should be present in your configuration.
Having multiple configurations, for example, in several projects deployed in one run, results in the last applied configuration being active on the Dynatrace environment.

## Non-unique name

Monaco assumes a unique configuration name and uses it as the identifier when creating or updating a configuration.
This is true for most configurations created in the Dynatrace web UI or via API calls.

Some configurations can have the same names, which causes issues for the Dynatrace Monaco CLI.
For example, there can be several dashboards named `MyDashboard`.
If more than one name configuration is present, the Dynatrace Monaco CLI can't ensure that the correct one is updated when searching by name. Similar problems are present when downloading.

Dynatrace Monaco CLI specially handles these configuration APIs to ensure the following:

* They receive a known identifier when originating from the Dynatrace Monaco CLI.
* They are stored with their Dynatrace identifier rather than their name when downloading.

## Calculated metrics

Calculated metric type names should be globally unique.
Otherwise, Monaco may return `duplicate config name` errors.

Generally, calculated metrics behave as non-unique name types but use a `metricKey` that you can define as an identifier, so the automated handling described above is impossible.

While the API and web UI allow you to create several configurations with the same `name`, the Dynatrace Monaco CLI can't uniquely identify these configurations.
After a [download](/docs/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/reference/commands-saas#download "How to use the Monaco CLI application, including arguments and options."), you may see `duplicate config name` errors for calculated metric types.

The `calculated-metrics-log` type, which allows configuring the metrics for the deprecated Logs v1, needs further special handling. For more information, see [calculated log metrics JSON](/docs/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/configuration/special-configuration-types-saas#log-metrics-json "This is a list of Monaco special configuration types.") below.

## Settings 2.0 objects

The handling of Settings 2.0 objects differs from classic configurations.
Unlike the latter, which are typically identified by name, Settings 2.0 objects might not have a unique name or any name at all.
Instead, they are assigned an external identifier called `externalId` that enables them to be uniquely identified.

The `externalId` consists of the prefix `monaco:` followed by an identifier generated by the Dynatrace Monaco CLI on deployment.

To ensure that the existing Settings 2.0 objects are reliably updated, the Dynatrace Monaco CLI records the original Dynatrace object IDs when downloading and includes them in the YAML configuration field `originObjectId`.

Settings objects also have special requirements for their JSON templates. For more details, see [Settings JSON](/docs/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/configuration/special-configuration-types-saas#settings-json "This is a list of Monaco special configuration types.") below.

## Special requirements for JSON templates

Some types of configuration have special requirements for their JSON payloads and may need manual attention.

### Dashboard JSON

When you create a dashboard, it's private by default.
All the dashboards defined via Configuration as Code need to be shared publicly with other users; otherwise, only the owner of the access token used to deploy can view them.
You can change this in the dashboard's **Settings** or by changing your checked-in `json` file.

We recommend the following values for the `dashboardMetadata`:

```
"dashboardMetadata": {



"name": "{{ .name }}",



"shared": true,



"sharingDetails": {



"linkShared": true,



"published": true



},



"dashboardFilter": {



"timeframe": "",



"managementZone": {



"id": "{{ .managementZoneId }}",



"name": "{{ .managementZoneName }}"



}



}



}
```

This configuration does the following:

* References the name of the dashboard as a [variable](#configuration-yaml-structure)
* Shares the dashboard with other users
* Sets a management zone filter on the entire dashboard, again as a variable, typically [referenced from another configuration](/docs/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/configuration/yaml-configuration-saas#reference "The Monaco configuration YAML file is structure.") TODO

Filtering the whole dashboard by management zone ensures that only data that is meant to be displayed is picked up by the dashboard tiles, and it eliminates the possible need to define filters for individual tiles.

* Dynatrace Monaco CLI version 1.208+ A dashboard configuration must have a property owner. The property owner in `dashboardMetadata` is mandatory and must contain a non-null value.
* Dynatrace Monaco CLI version 1.208+ The property `sharingDetails` in `dashboardMetadata` is no longer present.

### Calculated log metrics JSON

The calculated log metrics API requires the following specific naming conventions.
To ensure Dynatrace Monaco considers these configurations, the log metric's `metricKey` must be reused as the configuration's `name`.

If you experience failing configuration deployments, consider setting the same value for `metricKey` and `displayName`.

You need to reference at least the `metricKey` of the log metric, as `{{ .name }}` in the JSON file as shown here:

```
configs:



- id: some-log-metric-config



config:



name:  "cal.log:this-is-some-metric"



[...]
```

And in the corresponding JSON:

```
{



"metricKey": "{{ .name }}",



"active": true,



"displayName": "{{ .name }}",



[...]



}
```

### Conditional naming JSON

The conditional naming API does not provide a `name` parameter.
Since Dynatrace Monaco CLI requires a name property in the `config.yaml`, it needs to be mapped to the `displayName` field in the JSON template.

The `PROCESS_GROUP` type:

```
{



"type": "PROCESS_GROUP",



"nameFormat": "Test naming PG for {Host:DetectedName}",



"displayName": "{{ .name }}",



[...]



}
```

The `HOST` type:

```
{



"type": "HOST",



"nameFormat": "Test - {Host:DetectedName}",



"displayName": "{{ .name }}",



[...]



}
```

The `SERVICE` type:

```
{



"type": "SERVICE",



"nameFormat": "{ProcessGroup:KubernetesNamespace} - {Service:DetectedName}",



"displayName": "{{ .name }}",



...



}
```

### Settings 2.0 JSON



The [Settings API](/docs/dynatrace-api/environment-api/settings "Find out what the Dynatrace Settings API offers.") has additional properties unrelated to the specific schemas.
This requires Dynatrace Monaco CLI to set further parameters.

The JSON templates for Settings should only include the actual configuration `value`.

For example, while the API response for a custom alert config (`builtin:davis.anomaly-detectors`) is:

```
{



"items": [



{



"objectId": "XYZ",



"value": {



"enabled": false,



"title": "Error when adding item to cart",



"description": "",



"source": "Anomaly Detection",



"executionSettings": {



"queryOffset": 3



},



"analyzer": {



"name": "dt.statistics.ui.anomaly_detection.StaticThresholdAnomalyDetectionAnalyzer",



"input": [



{



"key": "query",



"value": "timeseries cartFailedToAddItem=sum(log.cartFailedToAddItem)"



},



{



"key": "slidingWindow",



"value": "3"



},



{



"key": "violatingSamples",



"value": "1"



},



{



"key": "dealertingSamples",



"value": "3"



},



{



"key": "alertCondition",



"value": "ABOVE"



},



{



"key": "alertOnMissingData",



"value": "false"



},



{



"key": "threshold",



"value": "0"



}



]



},



"eventTemplate": {



"properties": [



{



"key": "event.name",



"value": "Cart Failure increase"



},



{



"key": "event.description",



"value": "The {metricname} value was {alert_condition} normal behavior."



},



{



"key": "event.type",



"value": "ERROR_EVENT"



},



{



"key": "dt.event.allow_davis_merge",



"value": "true"



}



]



}



}



}



]



"totalCount": 89,



"pageSize": 1,



"nextPageKey": "XY"



}
```

The Dynatrace Monaco JSON template only requires the `value` content:

```
{



"enabled": false,



"title": "Error when adding item to cart",



"description": "",



"source": "Anomaly Detection",



"executionSettings": {



"queryOffset": 3



},



"analyzer": {



"name": "dt.statistics.ui.anomaly_detection.StaticThresholdAnomalyDetectionAnalyzer",



"input": [



{



"key": "query",



"value": "timeseries cartFailedToAddItem=sum(log.cartFailedToAddItem)"



},



{



"key": "slidingWindow",



"value": "3"



},



{



"key": "violatingSamples",



"value": "1"



},



{



"key": "dealertingSamples",



"value": "3"



},



{



"key": "alertCondition",



"value": "ABOVE"



},



{



"key": "alertOnMissingData",



"value": "false"



},



{



"key": "threshold",



"value": "0"



}



]



},



"eventTemplate": {



"properties": [



{



"key": "event.name",



"value": "Cart Failure increase"



},



{



"key": "event.description",



"value": "The {metricname} value was {alert_condition} normal behavior."



},



{



"key": "event.type",



"value": "ERROR_EVENT"



},



{



"key": "dt.event.allow_davis_merge",



"value": "true"



}



]



}



}
```

When using the [download command](/docs/deliver/configuration-as-code/monaco/reference/commands-saas#download "How to use the Monaco CLI application, including arguments and options."), this happens automatically.